---
title: "Comparison between convolutional neural networks and random forest for local climate zone classification in mega urban areas using Landsat images"
author: Daehyeon Han
date: 2019-09-12
categories: research
---

***published in ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing [doi:10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2019.09.009](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2019.09.009)***

### Abstract

The Local Climate Zone (LCZ) scheme is a classification system providing a standardization framework to present the characteristics of urban forms and functions, especially for urban heat island (UHI) research. Landsat-based 100 m resolution LCZ maps have been classified by the World Urban Database and Portal Tool (WUDAPT) method using a random forest (RF) machine learning classifier. Some studies have proposed modified RF and convolutional neural network (CNN) approaches. This study aims to compare CNN with an RF classifier for LCZ mapping in great detail. We designed five schemes (three RF-based schemes (S1–S3) and two CNN-based ones (S4–S5)), which consist of various combinations of input features from bitemporal Landsat 8 data over four global mega cities: Rome, Hong Kong, Madrid, and Chicago. Among the five schemes, the CNN-based one with the incorporation of a larger neighborhood information showed the best classification performance. When compared to the WUDAPT workflow, the overall accuracies for entire land cover classes (OA) and for urban LCZ types (i.e., LCZ1-10; OAurb) increased by about 6–8% and 10–13%, respectively, for the four cities. The transferability of LCZ models for the four cities were evaluated, showing that CNN consistently resulted in higher accuracy (increased by about 7–18% and 18–29% for OA and OAurb, respectively) than RF. This study revealed that the CNN classifier classified particularly well for the specific LCZ classes in which buildings were mixed with trees or buildings or plants were sparsely distributed. The research findings can provide a basis for guidance of future LCZ classification using deep learning.


### Slides
<iframe src="//www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/key/MGaqurQY1rZlJp" width="595" height="485" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen> </iframe> <div style="margin-bottom:5px"> <strong> <a href="//www.slideshare.net/wyinatall/local-climate-zone-classification-using-cnn-95571452" title="Local Climate Zone classification using CNN" target="_blank">Local Climate Zone classification using CNN</a> </strong> from <strong><a href="//www.slideshare.net/wyinatall" target="_blank">Daehyeon Han</a></strong> </div>