---
title: "Local Climate Zone classification"
date: 2018-04-29
categories: research, cnn, urban, classification
---
# Local Climate Zone classification using remote sensing Images with convolutional neural networks

***in progress, will be submitted soon.***

## Abstract

  Local climate zones (LCZs) divide urban landscapes into 17 classes based on urban structures, building densities, and land cover types. In the original World Urban Database and Access Portal Tools (WUDAPT) workflow, random forest (RF) machine learning is used to classify LCZs at a resolution of 100 m using Landsat images. This study classified LCZs for the Seoul Capital Area of South Korea using convolutional neural networks (CNNs). A total of 5 scenarios (S1-S5) were tested for LCZ classification. S1 uses the standard WUDAPT RF classifier. In S2-S3, neighborhood information of single pixels such as mean, standard deviation, maximum, minimum, and median in a moving window is added to the S1 variables. S2 uses a 3x3 kernel while S3 uses a 7×7 kernel. The novel method of this study is subdividing each pixel of 100 m resolution into 10×10 sub-pixel segments. The original 30 m Landsat bands were bilinearly resampled to 10 m resolution, subdividing each 100 m pixel into 100 sub-pixels. S4 applies CNNs to LCZ classification. The 100 pixels of 10 m resolution are fed into the CNN as an input image, which is allocated to one LCZ class. S5, the last scenario, also uses a CNN-based approach with an input image of 900 pixels of 10 m resolution. The total of 30×30 sub-pixel segments located at the same place as 3x3 100 m resolution pixels surrounding the pixel of one LCZ class are fed into CNN. The overall accuracy (OA) of all classes and overall accuracy of urban types (OAurb) of S1 were 80.6% and 53.2%, respectively. Compared to the standard WUDAPT approach of S1, the OA and OAurb of S2 and S3 increased; S3 shows 82.0% (OA) and 58.2% (OAurb). Between S4 and S5, both using sub-pixel information with a CNN classifier, using the 30×30 sub-pixel segments (S5) showed a higher accuracy than using only 10×10 sub-pixel segments (S4). S5 yielded the best performance, resulting in 86.0% (OA) and 67.8% (OAurb). This suggest that the proposed CNN approach might be effective for LCZ applications.


# Slides
<iframe src="//www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/key/MGaqurQY1rZlJp" width="595" height="485" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen> </iframe> <div style="margin-bottom:5px"> <strong> <a href="//www.slideshare.net/wyinatall/local-climate-zone-classification-using-cnn-95571452" title="Local Climate Zone classification using CNN" target="_blank">Local Climate Zone classification using CNN</a> </strong> from <strong><a href="//www.slideshare.net/wyinatall" target="_blank">Daehyeon Han</a></strong> </div>