---
title: "CNN-based land cover classification"
date: 2018-05-01
categories: research, cnn, classification, landcover
---
## Convolutional neural network-based land cover classification using 2-D spectral reflectance curve graphs with multi-temporal satellite imagery 

*Miae Kim<sup>1</sup>, Junghee Lee<sup>1</sup>, **Daehyeon Han<sup>1</sup>**, Minso Shin<sup>1</sup>, Jungho Im<sup>1,3\*</sup>, Junghye Lee<sup>2</sup>, Lindi J. Quackenbush<sup>3</sup>, Zhu Gu<sup>3</sup>*

*1) School of Urban and Environment Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan, 44919, Korea*

*2) School of Management Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan, 44919, Korea*

*3) Department of Environmental Resources Engineering, State University of New York, College of Environmental Science and Forestry, Syracuse, NY 13210, USA*

*under review, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing*

### Abstract

Researchers constantly seek more efficient detection techniques to better utilize enhanced image resolution in accurately detecting and monitoring land cover. Recently, convolutional neural networks (CNN) have shown high performances comparable to or even better than widely used and adopted machine learning techniques. The aim of this study is to investigate the application of CNN for land cover classification by using 2-dimensional spectral curve graphs from multi-spectral satellite images. Land cover classification was conducted in Concord, New Hampshire, USA and South Korea by using multi-spectral images acquired from 30 m Landsat-8 and 500 m Geostationary Ocean Color Imager images. For construction of input data specific to CNN, two seasons (winter and summer) of multi-spectral bands were transformed into 2-D spectral curve graphs for each class. Land cover classification results of CNN were compared with support vector machines (SVM) and random forest (RF) results. For the Concord site, overall accuracy for validation data showed that the CNN model (91.58%) was 1% and 2.29% higher than SVM (90.56%), and RF (89.29%), respectively. In the validation region of South Korea, CNN (74.16%) produced 2.85% and 7% higher overall accuracy than SVM (71.31%) and RF (67.16%), respectively. The examination of land cover classification maps demonstrates good agreement compared with reference maps, Google Earth images, and existing global scale land cover map, especially for croplands. This study demonstrates that the use of a new transformation of spectral bands into a 2-D form for application in CNN can improve land cover classification performance.

