---
title: "Novel approaches of transforming the spectral domain into two-dimensional feature space for land cover classification using convolutional neural network with multi-temporal satellite imagery"
date: 2018-05-01
categories: research, cnn, classification, landcover
---
## **Novel approaches of transforming the spectral domain into two-dimensional feature space for land cover classification using convolutional neural network with multi-temporal satellite imagery**

*Junghee Lee<sup>1</sup>, **Daehyeon Han<sup>1</sup>**, Minso Shin <sup>1</sup>, Jungho Im<sup>1,3\*</sup>, Junghye Lee<sup>2</sup>, Lindi J. Quackenbush<sup>3</sup>, Zhu Gu<sup>3</sup>*

*1) School of Urban and Environment Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan, 44919, Korea*

*2) School of Management Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan, 44919, Korea*

*3) Department of Environmental Resources Engineering, State University of New York, College of Environmental Science and Forestry, Syracuse, NY 13210, USA*

*Remote Sensing of Environment, under review*

### Abstract

This study proposes novel approaches for land cover classification through the transformation of input data based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs). One-dimensional (1-D) spectral vectors from Landsat 8 were transformed into two-dimensional (2-D) features, in particular graph images (i.e., lines and polygons) and matrices. The motivation of this study is that the shape of the converted 2-D images is more intuitive for human eyes to interpret when compared to 1-D spectral input; CNNs are highly specialized and may be able to similarly utilize this information for land cover classification. Four seasonal Landsat 8 images over two study areas—Lake Tapps, Washington, and Concord, New Hampshire, USA—were used in this research. The results showed that the overall accuracy of the polygon- and matrix-based CNNs was 93.98% and 91.13%, respectively. Accuracy improvement of 1.07-2.34% was achieved by the polygon-based CNN model when compared to random forest and support vector machine approaches. When using the oversampled training dataset, the matrix-based CNN model yielded an accuracy increase of 3.18%, while the graph-based CNN models showed similar accuracy. Unlike typical CNN classification models, the graph-based CNNs, particularly polygon-based CNN, worked well even for small training sample size. The contributing input bands for the models were carefully examined through sensitivity analysis based on occlusion maps and mean accuracy decrease. This study shows that there is potential to improve classification accuracy via transforming spectral vectors into 2-D graph images, which can be easily applied to traditional land cover classification. 