---
title: "Convolutional Neural Network-Based Land Cover Classification Using 2-D Spectral Reflectance Curve Graphs With Multitemporal Satellite Imagery"
date: 2018-05-01
categories: research, cnn, classification, landcover
---
## Convolutional Neural Network-Based Land Cover Classification Using 2-D Spectral Reflectance Curve Graphs With Multitemporal Satellite Imagery 

*Miae Kim<sup>1</sup>, Junghee Lee<sup>1</sup>, **Daehyeon Han<sup>1</sup>**, Minso Shin<sup>1</sup>, Jungho Im<sup>1,3\*</sup>, Junghye Lee<sup>2</sup>, Lindi J. Quackenbush<sup>3</sup>, Zhu Gu<sup>3</sup>*

*1) School of Urban and Environment Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan, 44919, Korea*

*2) School of Management Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST), Ulsan, 44919, Korea*

*3) Department of Environmental Resources Engineering, State University of New York, College of Environmental Science and Forestry, Syracuse, NY 13210, USA*

*IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing*

https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8565922

### Abstract

Researchers constantly seek more efficient detection techniques to better utilize enhanced image resolution in accurately detecting and monitoring land cover. Recently, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have shown high performances comparable to or even better than widely used and adopted machine learning techniques. The aim of this study is to investigate the application of CNNs for land cover classification by using two-dimensional (2-D) spectral curve graphs from multispectral satellite images. The land cover classification was conducted in Concord, New Hampshire, USA, and South Korea by using multispectral images acquired from 30-m Landsat-8 and 500-m Geostationary Ocean Color Imager images. For the construction of input data specific to CNNs, two seasons (winter and summer) of multispectral bands were transformed into 2-D spectral curve graphs for each class. Land cover classification results of CNNs were compared with the results of support vector machines (SVMs) and random forest (RFs). The CNNs model showed higher performance than RFs and SVMs in both study sites. The examination of land cover classification maps demonstrates a good agreement with reference maps, Google Earth images, and existing global scale land cover map, especially for croplands. Using the spectral curve graph could incorporate the phenological cycles on classifying the land cover types. This study shows that the use of a new transformation of spectral bands into a 2-D form for application in CNNs can improve land cover classification performance.